[ APPLAUSE ]
&gt;&gt;&gt; WELCOME BACK, EVERYBODY.
SO, MICHELLE LeCLAIR SAYS THAT
SHE JOINED THE CHURCH OF
SCIENTOLOGY AS A TEENAGER.
SHE BECAME A DEDICATED MEMBER
OVER THE YEARS DONATING MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS TO THE ORGANIZATION.
BUT IN HER BOOK, "PERFECTLY
CLEAR," SHE SAYS THE CHURCH
TRIED TO DESTROY HER WHEN SHE
LEFT AFTER 21 YEARS.
WATCH THIS.
&gt;&gt; I WAS 18, I GOT INTO A REALLY
BAD CAR ACCIDENT.
I WENT UNDERNEATH TWO SEMI
TRUCKS AND A THIRD ONE ROLLED
OVER THE TOP OF MY CAR.
AT THAT MOMENT, THERE WAS
SOMETHING THAT CAME OVER ME.
IT WAS PROBABLY THE FIRST MOMENT
THAT I WANTED TO LOOK INTO
SOMETHING SPIRITUALLY.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: IN 1989, MICHELLE
LeCLAIR JOINED HER MOTHER IN THE
CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT AFTER MY ACCIDENT, THE
MINISTER THAT CAME TO THE
HOSPITAL SAID TO ME, YOU KNOW,
IN SCIENTOLOGY WE BELIEVE THAT
ALL ACCIDENTS AND ILLNESSES STEM
FROM SUPPRESSION IN YOUR LIFE.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: LeCLAIR SAID SHE
STARTED SESSIONS, A TYPE OF
COUNSELING WITH MEMBERS OF THE
ORGANIZATION.
&gt;&gt; WHEN I DID THE SECURITY
CHECK, I THINK THE FIRST THING I
WENT OVER WAS MY OWN SEXUALITY.
BUT I WOULD PUSH THOSE THOUGHTS
DOWN AND I WOULD BE A GOOD
SCIENTOLOGIST.
I WANTED TO BE ACCEPTED.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: AT 21, LeCLAIR
MARRIED AND HAD HER HUSBAND JOIN
THE CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY.
THEY HAD FOUR CHILDREN.
BUT SHE SAYS HER RELATIONSHIP
WITH HER HUSBAND WAS ROCKY AND
SAYS SHE TURNED TO SCIENTOLOGY
FOR HELP.
&gt;&gt; EVERY TIME I TRY TO REACH OUT
TO THE CHURCH, MY THOUGHTS OF
WOMEN AND MY CONFESSION OF
HOH
HOMOSEXUALITY WAS USED AGAINST
ME.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: SHE SAID THE CHURCH
ADVISED HER TO TAKE EXPENSIVE
MARRIAGE COURSES FROM THEM.
SHE DID.
BUT AFTER 14 YEARS, SHE HAD HAD
ENOUGH.
SHE DEMANDED A DIVORCE, DESPITE
THE CHURCH'S LACK OF SUPPORT.
&gt;&gt; I SAID, IF YOU DO NOT GET ME
OUT OF SESSION AND START THIS
DIVORCE IMMEDIATELY, YOU WILL
NOT GET ANOTHER DIME FROM ME.
AND THE NEXT DAY, I WAS IN THE
CHAPLAIN'S OFFICE, WITH A LAWYER
ON THE PHONE WRITING UP OUR
DIVORCE AGREEMENT.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: BY THIS TIME,
LeCLAIR HAD BUILT UP AN
INSURANCE BUSINESS AND GAVE A
LOT OF HER MONEY TO THE CHURCH.
&gt;&gt; I SPENT BETWEEN DONATIONS AND
SERVICES, $5 MILLION TO THE
CHURCH.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: FOLLOWING HER
DIVORCE, SHE SAYS SHE FELL IN
LOVE WITH A FEMALE FRIEND.
&gt;&gt; SHE WAS THE KINDEST,
SWEETEST, MOST HONEST PERSON I
HAD MET AT THAT TIME.
I HAD COME IN FROM A TRIP WITH
HER.
AND MY PHONE RINGS AND IT'S MY
MENTOR IN THE CHURCH.
AND SHE SAYS, ARE YOU HAVING AN
AFFAIR WITH A WOMAN?
AND EVERYTHING IN ME WANTED TO
SCREAM FROM THE TOP OF MY LUNGS,
I AM IN LOVE WITH A WOMAN.
BUT I COULDN'T GET THE WORDS OUT
BECAUSE I WAS SCARED TO DEATH.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: IN 2010, AFTER 21
YEARS IN THE CHURCH OF
SCIENTOLOGY, LeCLAIR SAYS SHE
STOPPED COMMUNICATING WITH THE
CHURCH ALTOGETHER.
IN 2011, LeCLAIR AND HER
BUSINESS PARTNER RECEIVED
NOTIFICATION THEY WERE UNDER
INVESTIGATION FOR SECURITIES
FRAUD.
AND IN 2012, THE CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CORPORATIONS FILED
A CIVIL LAWSUIT AGAINST THEM.
ACCUSING THEM OF OPERATING A $21
MILLION PONZI SCHEME, RIPPING
OFF INVESTORS, MOST OF WOMAN
WERE SENIORS, FOR MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS.
LeCLAIR AND HER BUSINESS PARTNER
HAD BEEN RAISING MONEY FOR FILM
PROJECTS OVER THE YEARS BUT
REASON INTO FINANCIAL ISSUES,
THE EXTENT OF WHICH, SHE CLAIMS
SHE WAS UNAWARE OF.
THEY REACHED A SETTLEMENT WITH
THE STATE AND SHE SURRENDERED
HER INSURANCE LICENSE.
BUT IN 2015, THE L.A. COUNTY
D.A.'S OFFICE, CHARGED LeCLAIR
AND HER BUSINESS PARTNER IN A
72-COUNT COMPLAINT, FOR THE SAME
CRIME.
SHE STRUCK A DEAL WITH THE D.A.
AND SHE AGREED TO REPAY
INVESTORS AN ADDITIONAL $1.2
MILLION AND TO TESTIFY AT TRIAL
AGAINST HER CO-DEFENDANT.
THE CASE AGAINST HIM WAS DROPPED
FOR LACK OF EVIDENCE.
AND THE STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS
HAD RUN OUT.
IN HER BOOK, SHE SAYS THE
INVESTIGATIONS WERE INSTIGATED
BY THE CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THEY WERE TRYING TO
SEE WHAT THEY COULD FIND ON ME
TO BLACKMAIL ME.
I HAVE A COPY OF A LETTER FOR
THAT INVESTIGATION.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: ITS INVESTIGATION
STARTED WITH A CIVILIAN
COMPLAINT, ADDING IN A
STATEMENT, THE NOTION THIS CASE
HAS ANYTHING TO DO WITH
SCIENTOLOGY IS PATENTLY FALSE,
LIKE THE CLAIMS MADE TO
INVESTORS IN LeCLAIR'S PONZI
SCHEME.
LeCLAIR CONNED CALIFORNIANS OUT
OF THEIR LIFE SAVINGS AND SHE
GOT CAUGHT.
AND THE CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY
HAVE DISPUTED HER CLAIM.
SAYING CIVIL CHARGES AGAINST
MS. LeCLAIR WERE INITIATED BY
HER VICTIMS.
MS. LeCLAIR IS PEDDLING FICTION.
IT ISF THE CHURCH OF
SCIENTOLOGY.
BUT THAT ALL CHANGED WHEN THEY
FOUND OUT, SHE SAYS, SHE WAS IN
LOVE WITH A WOMAN.
PLEASE WELCOME MICHELLE.
MICHELLE LeCLAIR.
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
YOUR MOM WAS IN THE CHURCH.
AND THAT WAS HOW YOU GOT
INTRODUCED TO IT.
AT WHAT AGE?
&gt;&gt; AT 18.
YOU WRITE IN YOUR BOOK ABOUT
" --
"PERFECTLY CLEAR."
&gt;&gt; IT'S A PUN ON CLEAR AND LOVE
MADE THINGS PERFECTLY CLEAR FOR
ME.
&gt;&gt; YOU WRITE ABOUT THE AUDITING
SESSIONS YOU DID.
THIS IS A PART OF SCIENTOLOGY,
SAYS EVERYONE WHO HAS BEEN A
PART OF IT.
WHAT IS AN AUDITING SESSION?
&gt;&gt; YOU AND I ARE TALKING.
BUT THE DIFFERENCE IS AND WHAT
MAKES IT SO STRANGE IS THERE'S
AN E-METER.
IT'S A ROUND DIVORCE WITH AN
ELECTRODE AND I WOULD BE HOLDING
CANS.
&gt;&gt; LIKE SOUP CANS?
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
THEY KIND OF LOOK LIKE THAT.
THEY HAVE DIFFERENT SIZES TO FIT
DIFFERENT HAND SIZES.
AND YOU WOULD BE LOOKING AT THE
E-METER AND YOU WOULD ASK ME A
QUESTION.
IF IT REACTED ON THE METER, YOU
WOULD ASK ME MORE ABOUT THAT
QUESTION.
IT'S KIND OF LIKE A LIE DETECTOR
IS THE BEST WAY.
CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY BELIEVES
THAT YOU HAVE SUBCONSCIOUS
THOUGHTS THAT MAYBE YOU'RE NOT
AWARE OF.
THIS METER IS TO HELP DETECT
THOSE SUBCONSCIOUS THOUGHTS.
&gt;&gt; AND THE SOUP CANS HAVE THE
ANSWER.
&gt;&gt; IT'S A LITTLE EMBARRASSING
RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; A LOT OF RELIGIONS HAVE WEIRD
BELIEFS.
THEY'RE NOT THE ONLY ONES.
THERE'S A DEBATE WHETHER
SCIENTOLOGY IS A RELIGION AT
ALL.
THE IRS IS SAYING THEY QUALIFY.
YOU LIKED THE E-METER, RIGHT?
YOU TALKED ABOUT FEELING
EUP
EUPHORIC.
&gt;&gt; I LIKED THE SESSION.
WHEN YOU'RE 18 YEARS OLD AND
TRYING TO FIG YOURSELF OUT,
ANYONE YOU TALK TO, IT FEELS
GOOD TO TALK ABOUT YOURSELF OR
YOUR CONCERNS.
YOU FORGET THAT THE E-METER IS
THERE.
&gt;&gt; AND TO BE ACCEPTED, RIGHT?
THESE ARE NOT JUDGMENTAL
SESSIONS.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
YOU DON'T GET ANY OPINION IN THE
SESSION.
THEY ASK YOU A QUESTION.
YOU ANSWER THE QUESTION.
AND THEN, THEY ASK YOU AN
EARLIER TIME THAT THIS HAPPENED
TO YOU.
AND THEN, AN EARLIER TIME IT
HAPPENED.
&gt;&gt; THEY GIVE YOU USEFUL LIFE
TOOLS.
I HEARD THIS FROM A LOT OF
EX-SCIENTOLOGISTS.
THE REASON THAT PEOPLE ARE
ATTRACTED TO SCIENTOLOGY, IS NOT
ALL ODD STUFF.
THE ADVICE IS PRACTICAL AND THEY
HELP WITH YOUR LIVES.
THIS IS PRACTICAL IF YOU'RE 18
AND 19 YEARS OLD.
AND THEY REQUIRE YOU TO WORK.
MOST RELIGIONS DON'T REQUIRE YOU
TO WORK FOR THEM.
TALK ABOUT THE AMOUNT OF WORK
AND WHAT YOU WERE DOING.
&gt;&gt; IT DEPENDS.
IF YOU'RE IN THE C-WARD, YOU
WORK ALL THE TIME.
YOU'RE CLEANING ROOMS AND YOU'RE
WORKING 16 HOURS A DAY.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
HOW MUCH MONEY ARE YOU DONATING?
YOU HAVE BUSINESS CONSULTANTS
HELPING YOU EXPAND YOUR
BUSINESS.
&gt;&gt; YOU STARTED AN INSURANCE
THEY SUPPORTED YOU IN THOSE
EFFORTS.
&gt;&gt; THEY DID.
I MEAN, THEY HAD MANAGEMENT
CONSULTING.
L. RON HUBBARD WROTE SOMETHING
ABOUT EVERYTHING.
THAT'S WHY IT'S ALL-CONSUMING.
HOW TO RAISE A FAMILY.
HOW TO HAVE A MARRIAGE.
HOW TO RUN A BUSINESS.
WHAT HAPPENS IS, YOUR ENTIRE
LIFE IS, CAPPSLATED.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN WORK OUTSIDE
SCIENTOLOGY OR WORK INSIDE
SCIENTOLOGY.
IF YOU WORK OUTSIDE SCIENTOLOGY,
THEY MAY SUPPORT YOUR EFFORTS,
LIKE THEY DID WITH YOU.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; YOU WRITE IN THE BOOK OF A
PRESSURE TO ASSOCIATE ONLY WITH
SCIENTOLOGISTS OR MOSTLY
SCIENTOLOGISTS.
THEY WOULD ASK YOU ABOUT THE
PEOPLE IN YOUR LIFE.
IS THIS PERSON OPEN TO BETTERING
THEMSELVES WITH SCIENTOLOGY.
IF THE ANSWER WAS NO, WHAT WOULD
THEY SAY?
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE TO LOOK AROUND.
WERE YOU BETTERING YOURSELF
EVERY DAY, IF YOU WERE, IF I
WANTED TO BE FRIENDS WITH YOU
AND YOU DIDN'T WANT TO BETTER
YOURSELF WITH SCIENTOLOGY, I
DIDN'T NEED TO BE FRIENDS WITH
YOU.
IT WAS ALWAYS ABOUT INTRODUCING
SOMEBODY TO SCIENTOLOGY.
LEAH REMINI EXPLAINS IT WELL.
SHE TALKED ABOUT HOW MANY PEOPLE
SHE HAD TO RECRUIT.
EVERYBODY IN MY COMPANY WAS
DOING SCIENTOLOGY COURSES
BECAUSE I WAS ASKING THEM TO DO
THEM.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU'RE NOT IN THE CHURCH,
THEY LABEL YOU A SUPPRESSIVE
PERSON.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU SPEAK OUT AGAINST THE
CHURCH OF SIGN CIENTOLOGY, YOU'
LABELED A SUPPRESSIVE PERSON.
I HAVE A FEELING I AM.
&gt;&gt; WE'RE GOING TO BE BACK
[ APPLAUSE ]
&gt;&gt;&gt; SO, WE'VE BEEN SPEAKING THIS
MORNING WITH MICHELLE LeCLAIR, A
FORMER SCIENTOLOGIST, WHO CLAIMS
THE CHURCH CAME AFTER HER IN
WAYS THAT SHE NEVER COULD
IMAGINE WHEN SHE CONFESSED SHE
WAS GAY.
THE CHURCH DENIES ALL OF THIS.
YOU WERE MARRIED TO A MAN.
IT WAS A ROCKY RELATIONSHIP.
AND YOU DECIDED YOU WANTED A
DIVORCE.
&gt;&gt; YES.
&gt;&gt; YOU SAY YOU GOT CONSIDERABLE
PUSHBACK FROM THE CHURCH ON THAT
REQUEST.
I MEAN, WHY DID YOU HAVE TO --
LISTEN.
I'M CATHOLIC, THEY'RE NOT IN
FAVOR OF DIVORCE, EITHER.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WHAT IS DIFFERENT ABOUT
SCIENTOLOGY?
&gt;&gt; I TRIED TO DIVORCE FIVE TIMES
IN THE FIRST YEAR OF THE
MARRIAGE.
EVERY TIME YOU GO IN, YOU'RE
REQUIRED TO DO A MARRIAGE
COURSE, WHICH IS MORE AUDITING,
WITH YOUR PARTNER.
AND THEN, AFTER THAT, YOU GO
THROUGH COUNSELING WITH THE
CHAPLAIN.
IT ALWAYS COMES BACK TO, IF YOU
MADE A COMMITMENT TO SOMEONE,
WO
WHAT ARE YOU DOING AGAINST THAT
PERSON THAT YOU FEEL LIKE YOU
WANT TO LEAVE THEM?
AND SO, WHAT HAPPENED TO THAT
COMMUNICATION?
IT NEVER, FOR ME, WAS ABOUT WHAT
WAS HE DOING TO ME.
IT WAS, WHAT WAS I DOING OR
WITHHOLDING FROM HIM THAT I
WANTED TO LEAVE.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN MAKE THE ARGUMENT
THAT'S ABOUT PERSONAL
RESPONSIBILITY.
ALWAYS LOOK AT YOURSELF.
WHAT CAN I DO TO CHANGE MY
CIRCUMSTANCE.
HOW ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN YOUR
MARRIAGE DID THEY GET?
&gt;&gt; EVERY DETAIL.
YOU CAN SAY THAT, AND THAT'S
FINE IN A NORMAL MARRIAGE.
NOT WHEN YOU'RE BEING ABUSED.
AND SO, WHEN YOU GO TO THE
CHURCH AND ASK FOR HELP, AND
THEY TELL YOU THAT YOU'RE NOT
DOING YOUR WIFELY DUTIES ENOUGH,
AND SEND YOU BACK HOME TO HAVE A
CHILD, THEN, YOU KNOW, THAT'S A
PROBLEM.
&gt;&gt; WIFELY DUTIES MEANING SEX?
&gt;&gt; YES.
&gt;&gt; THEY WOULD GET THAT INVOLVED.
EVERY DETAIL.
YOU CLAIM YOUR EX-HUSBAND -- HE
ABUSED YOU?
&gt;&gt; YES.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO
REACH HIM.
YOU DIDN'T REPORT THE ABUSE AT
THE TIME TO THE AUTHORITIES.
WE HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO VERIFY
THAT.
THE CHURCH SAYS THEY HAVE A ZERO
TOLERANCE POLICY ON PHYSICAL AND
SEXUAL ABUSE AND REPORTS SUCH
ABUSE WHEN REQUIRED BY LAW.
THEY'RE NOT BUYING THEY WERE
EVER INFORMED OF ANY ABUSE IN
YOUR MARRIAGE.
&gt;&gt; I'M NOT REALLY AWARE OF
ANYTHING THAT THE CHURCH OF
SCIENTOLOGY TAKES RESPONSIBILITY
FOR.
THEY'RE BUILT ON LIES.
I DON'T EXPECT THEM TO SAY
ANYTHING ELSE.
YOU KNOW, I HAVE WITNESSES.
MY SISTER WITNESSED MANY THINGS.
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE THAT WORKED FOR
ME WITNESSED THINGS.
AND IT WAS NOT A GOOD LIFE TO
LIVE.
&gt;&gt; YOU -- AS WE DOCUMENT THE
PIECE, THE LIGHTBULB MOMENT
HAPPENS FOR YOU.
AND YOU REALIZE, I'M ATTRACTED
TO ANOTHER WOMAN.
AND I MIGHT BE A LESBIAN.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; THIS, TOO, DID NOT GO OVER
WELL IN THE CHURCH OF
SCIENTOLOGY, AS YOU SAY IN THE
BOOK, THAT L. RON HUBBARD WAS
AGAINST HOMOSEXUALITY.
HE THOUGHT THAT HOMOSEXUALS WERE
CRIMINALS.
&gt;&gt; YES.
&gt;&gt; THE CHURCH DENIES THAT, TOO.
THEY SAY CONTRARY TO THEIR
CLAIMS, YOUR HOMOSEXUALITY WAS
NEVER AN ISSUE WITH THE CHURCH.
BUT MICHELLE WAS INVOLVED IN
INFIDELITY.
WHAT DO YOU SAY WAS THE PUSHBACK
ON YOU BEING GAY?
&gt;&gt; I'M HOLDING BACK NOT REALLY
LAUGHING AT THAT STATEMENT.
ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS LOOK AT
WHAT L. RON HUBBARD SAYS ABOUT
GAY PEOPLE.
IT'S SIMPLE.
HE CONSIDERS THEM THE LOWEST OF
THE LOW.
HE FEELS THEY SHOULD BE TAKEN
OUT OF SOCIETY.
HE STATES IT IN "DIANETICS."
HE STATES IT IN THE CHART OF
HUMAN EVALUATION.
I TRIED TO COME OUT AT 19.
I WAS NOT ALLOWED TO HAVE
RELATIONS WITH WOMEN.
AFTER I WAS DIVORCED, LEFT MY
EX, I FELL IN LOVE WITH A WOMAN.
AND I KNEW THAT THAT WAS RIGHT
FOR ME.
IT WAS THE GREATEST THING I'D
EVER KNOWN.
&gt;&gt; MICHELLE TALKS ABOUT HOW THE
CHURCH ALLEGEDLY FORCED HER TO
GO AROUND TO PEOPLE WHO WERE
STRANGERS TO HER WITHIN THE
CHURCH, TO OFFER HER ATONEMENT
[ APPLAUSE ]
&gt;&gt;&gt; WE'RE BACK, NOW, WITH
MICHELLE LeCLAIR, WHO WAS A
SCIENTOLOGIST FOR DECADES UNTIL
SHE FINALLY LEFT THE CHURCH AND
SAYS TROUBLE BEGAN FOR HER, AND
HOW.
BEFORE WE GET TO THE TROUBLE,
WHEN THEY LEARNED THAT YOU WERE
HAVING LESBIAN THOUGHTS, YOU SAY
YOU HAD TO GO THROUGH A
MULTISTEP PROCESS TO ATONE FOR
THOSE THOUGHTS, INCLUDING GOING
AROUND TO PEOPLE WITHIN THE
CHURCH AND APOLOGIZING?
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
SO, THEY BELIEVED THAT I CHOSE
THE WRONG GROUP.
IF I WAS GOING TO TEND TO BE
PART OF A GROUP THAT WAS SO LOW,
I HAD TO CHOOSE TO BE PART OF MY
SCIENTOLOGY GROUP AGAIN AND I
HAD TO ASK TO BE ACCEPTED.
I TOOK A LIABILITY FORMULA
AROUND WITH ALL OF THE DETAILS
OF MY THOUGHTS AND I HAD TO WALK
UP TO YOU AND SAY, I AM IN
LIABILITY, WILL YOU ACCEPT ME
BACK INTO THE GROUP?
MOST SCIENTOLOGISTS ARE USED TO
THIS, THEY WOULD GRAB IT AND
SIGN IT.
AND THERE WERE THE ONES THAT
MADE YOU FEEL HORRIBLE.
&gt;&gt; THEY WOULD ASK WHAT DID YOU
DO?
SOME OF THEM WOULD LOOK AT IT
AND SAY, YOU'RE DISGUSTING AND
REFUSE TO SIGN IT.
&gt;&gt; NOTWITHSTANDING ALL OF THAT.
THE HEART WANTS WHAT IT WANTS.
YOU ALIGNED WITH THAT.
YOU DECIDED TO LEAVE THE CHURCH.
YOU FOUND LOVE WITH ANOTHER
WOMAN.
AND YOU SAY, THAT'S WHEN THE
TROUBLE STARTS.
YOU CONFESSED, THEY HELPED YOU
WITH YOUR INSURANCE BUSINESS.
YOU GAVE THEM, YOU SAY, OVER $5
MILLION, TO THE CHURCH OF
SCIENTOLOGY.
YOU HAVE TO DO THE SPECIAL
AUDITING.
THAT'S $40,000.
AND THE SPECIAL INTENSIVE
COURSE.
THAT'S $50,000.
YOU HAVE TO TELL OTHER PEOPLE TO
DO THAT.
YOU'RE $5 MILLION IN.
YOU'VE BECOME A RICH WOMAN, IN
PART BECAUSE OF THEIR HELP?
&gt;&gt; NO.
THE MAJORITY OF MY CLIENTS WERE
OUTSIDE OF THE CHURCH OF
SCIENTOLOGY.
I HAD ONE OR TWO THAT WERE
INSIDE THE CHURCH.
WHEN I SAY HELP, IT'S
CONSULTING, HOW TO BUILD A
BUSINESS, HOW TO BE BETTER AT
SALES.
&gt;&gt; YOU WERE TRYING TO GET PEOPLE
TO INVEST IN THIS MOVIE.
YOU'RE THE CEO OF THIS
ORGANIZATION THAT WAS BACK
FUNDING FOR THIS MOVIE.
YOU HAVE A PARTNER THAT WAS
DIRECTOR OF THE MOVIE.
AND WHAT THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
SAYS, THAT WAS A FRAUD.
THAT YOU BUILT THESE SENIOR
CITIZEN
CITIZENS OUT OF THEIR LIFE
SAVINGS.
THEY NEVER GOT RETURN ON THEIR
INVESTMENT.
AND THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
WOUND UP CHARGING YOU CRIMINALLY
ON IT AND OFFERED YOU IMMUNITY
TO TESTIFY AGAINST YOUR PARTNER,
RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; THE BEGINNING PART IS NOT
CORRECT.
I WAS NOT CEO OF THE COMPANY.
MY COMPANY WAS MAKING MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS ON ITS OWN IN
INSURANCE.
I HAD BEEN SUCCESSFUL.
THESE CLIENTS WERE CLIENTS OF
MINE FOR 20 YEARS.
THE MAN THAT OWNED THE COMPANY,
WAS MY FRIEND, AND I WAS
GODMOTHER TO HIS DAUGHTER.
HE WAS THE OWNER.
I INTRODUCED SOME OF MY CLIENTS.
BUT I PUT MY OWN MONEY IN.
MY FATHER.
MANY OF MY FAMILY MEMBERS.
IT'S PROBABLY MY GREATEST
REGRET.
IT WILL BE MY GREATEST REGRET.
&gt;&gt; THE CHURCH SAYS TO US, YOU
CAN'T BELIEVE A WORD THAT
MICHELLE SAYS.
SHE'S BEEN CHARGED WITH
FELONIES.
HAS BEEN A FRAUDSTER.
WAS CHARGED CIVILLY AND HAD TO
AGREE TO PAY BACK $17 MILLION OF
THE $21 MILLION OWED.
DO THEY HAVE A POINT?
&gt;&gt; I THINK WHAT'S SO HARD IS
THAT, NUMBER ONE, ANYTHING THE
CHURCH SAYS, I COULD CARE LESS
ABOUT.
I MADE A MISTAKE TRUSTING
SOMEBODY.
AND THE MOMENT THAT I KNEW HE
WAS DOING SOMETHING WRONG, THE
MOMENT HE LEFT FOR EUROPE AND
CAME BACK AND SAID, THE COMPANY
WAS BANKRUPT, I DIDN'T GO TO
ANYBODY TO PROTECT MYSELF.
I SET UP A TRUST FOR MY CLIENTS.
I PUT MONEY INTO A SEPARATE
ENTITY.
EVERY ASSET THAT I OWNED.
AND I GAVE IT TO MY CLIENTS.
I'LL WORK FOR THE REST OF MY
LIFE TO MAKE SURE THEY ARE TAKEN
CARE OF.
I LOST MORE MONEY THAN ANYBODY.
I DIDN'T NEED THAT.
&gt;&gt; WHAT ABOUT THE PROCEEDS OF
THE BOOK?
&gt;&gt; PROCEEDS OF THE BOOK GO TO
THE TRUST.
&gt;&gt; THEY DO?
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
[ APPLAUSE ]
&gt;&gt; THE FILMMAKER WITH WHOM
MICHELLE CONNECTED RESPONDED TO
THE ALLEGATIONS, AS WELL.
HE SAID, THROUGH HIS
SPOKESPERSON, WAS ABSOLVED OF
ALL OF THE CRIMINAL CHARGES
BECAUSE OF LACK OF TRUTH.
MRS. SEWARD'S ATTEMPTS TO PIN
THEM TO MR. SOREF ARE
SELF-SERVING AND ENTIRELY
IMPLAUSIBLE.
YOU BELIEVE THAT THE CHURCH
SICKED SOME PEOPLE ON YOU,
WHETHER THEY DID OR THEY DIDN'T,
AND THEY DENY DOING SO.
THE STATE IS SAYING THEY FOUND
CRIMINAL WRONGDOING.
SO, IT'S -- HOWEVER IT GOT
STARTED, THE STATE SAYS, WHEN
THEY LOOKED INTO IT, THEY FOUND
IT.
YOU'RE ACCEPTING RESPONSIBILITY
FOR YOUR OWN ACTIONS NOW.
&gt;&gt; YES.
I NEVER COMMITTED A CRIME.
I GAVE THEM ALL OF THE PAPERWORK
TO SHOW WHERE -- IT'S SIMPLE.
IT'S A MONEY TRAIL, RIGHT?
YOU KNOW, I GAVE THEM THE
PAPERWORK.
I WENT THROUGH FINANCIAL AUDITS.
AT THE END OF THE DAY, ALL
CHARGES WERE DISMISSED AGAINST
ME.
I FOUGHT FOR MY LIFE FOR THREE
YEARS TO PROVE MY INNOCENCE AND
I DID.
&gt;&gt; THE STATE DID SAY YOU CONNED
CALIFORNIANS, MOST OF WHOM WERE
SENIORS AND THAT YOU GOT CAUGHT.
GOOD FOR YOU FOR GIVING THE
PROCEEDS OF THE BOOK TO THE
PEOPLE WHO THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA SAYS YOU HURT.
&gt;&gt; ONE EXTRA POINT, THOUGH, IS
THE MAJORITY OF THE CLIENTS
SUPPORTED ME.
THERE WERE 140 PEOPLE AFFECTED.
THEY CAME AND WORE BUTTONS AND
SAT IN THE COURTROOM, SAYING
THEY SUPPORTED ME.